[2mTue Aug 25 00:19:56 EDT 2020[0m
[4mbyebye google, moving off gmail[0m

I started using Google search engine in the summer of 2000. It helped me a ton while I was doing fact checking for an alternative weekly newspaper in my city. That was my summer internship, the first of many unpaid and poorly-paid internships I juggled while working at pizza places for money. Anyway, I digress. Google was the first search engine that worked well for this kind of thing.

In 2004 I signed up for gmail. I liked it! It was an easy interface, much better than the hotmail and aol emails I had used previously starting in the mid-90s. Over the next few years it became the standard email to use for my peers. Then it spread to everyone else. Now everyone uses it.

Almost a decade ago I started trying out the Duckduckgo search engine in an attempt to move on from the Google monolith. While at that time I wasn't as aware of the full extent of Google's monetization of user data, I was at least somewhat aware of it. I think most concerningly to me at that time, I hated seeing ads on the right side of the interface. Clearly my emails were mined and used to generate ads for products. If it was that easy, I mean, this data could be stored somewhere, sold somewhere, hacked, etc.

But the email was easy to use. It had lots of past info in it. And there was so much inertia. It didn't help that when I've been forced to use alternative email services like outlook for university email, it's been a terrible experience. 

Over the past 5 years Duckduckgo has gotten noticeably better. I no longer need to use google. In fact, I prefer it, especially since it's Wikipedia integration is great, and I love the !bangs feature that lets me jump to other searches easily.

But the inertia of gmail was hard to leave. This year I started a podcast and got a domain and email for it, via dreamhost. The included email service, via webmail, is pretty basic. It's nothing to rave about. I knew for my main email I wanted something that compared favorably to gmail for me to want to really make the switch. Recently I learned about Migadu.com. For one thing, I love that its homepage starts with "Drawbacks." Their philosophy is clearly articulated and obvious while visiting the site. They are a small profitable Swiss company, with a clear business plan (charge customers for usage), not a startup. I own my own web domain, via dreamhost, currently hosted on GitHub. I am using the Migadu micro plan, at $19 a year. 

Okay, so then my next fear is that it would be hard to set up. What a farce. It took me about 10 minutes to configure my DNS on dreamhost. It just required me to type in some CNAME and txt records and MX records, and those wer all listed easily on a single page when I signed into Migadu for the first time. For those that despite this would still be confused on the process, Migadu offers a free *concierge* service to do this for you.

I'll note that a friend uses Posteo for their email (posteo.net) and that would also be a good option. While I like Posteo emphasizes sustainability, and has a nice calendar in addition to webmail (via Roundcube), I wanted to use my own domain not posteo.net, but alas they don't offer that as a service yet.

In any case, all this is to say:
Google -> Duckduckgo
Gmail -> Migadu with custom domain
I cancelled Amazon 2 years ago.
I don't use Facebook.
I am on Mastodon.

I still use google calendar but it should be easy to find an alternative (that's a next step for me).
I do use youtube a lot and should spend more time investigating Peertube instances.

That's it for now.
